Moving on to Amazon Aurora.
This is an AWS proprietary database.
It's a fully managed service.
It's high performance low price.
It scales in 10 gigabyte increments up to 32 CPUs and 244 gigabytes of RAM.
Two copies of data are kept in each AZ with a minimum of 3 AZs.
So you get six copies of your data for durability and it can handle the loss of up to two copies of
data without affecting the write availability and up to three copies without affecting read availability.
Read replicas.
There's two different types you've got the Aurora replica.
You can have up to 15 and the MySQL read replica.
We can have up to five  Aurora replicas in a region and MySQL is cross region. So for Aurora
cross region replicas the cross region read replicas allows for improved Disaster Recovery, scaling read
operations in regions closer to application users, and easily migrate from one region to another.
So they provide fast local reads across regions, each region can have an additional 15 read replicas
to further scale the local reads.
Now you can choose between global database and that provides the best replication performance or traditional
binlog based replication. Global database is a globally distributed application and it means
that a single or RDS database can span regions for fast local reads and quick disaster recovery.
It uses storage based replication to replicate the database across regions with very low latency of
less than 1 second you can use your secondary region as a backup if you need to recover.
In terms of some kind of disaster or degradation the database in the secondary region can also be promoted
to full read write capabilities very quickly.
We then have multi master.
This is a very new feature overall and it means that you can and you can use this with MySQL only
and it means that you can actually scale out your write performance across availability zones so you
can actually write to multiple database instances at the same time.
It's designed to achieve high availability and ACID transactions across clusters of database nodes
with configurable read after write consistency. Now something that comes up quite a bit on the SAA-C02
exam is Aurora Serverless.
This is an on demand auto scaling configuration for Aurora.
It's compatible with MySQL and PostgreSQL editions. Aurora serverless database
automatically starts up shuts down and scales capacity based on application needs so you can run a database
in the cloud about managing any database instances so good use cases for this where you have infrequent
intermittent or unpredictable workloads what you do is you create a database endpoint and specify optionally
specify the desired capacity range and connect your applications and then the database will basically
spin up when it's needed.
So you only pay for database storage and the actual database capacity in your database consumes while
it is active.
You pay on a per second basis for the database capacity you use when the database is asked.
Next up we've got dynamoDB. So this is a fully manage NoSQL database service that provides fast
and predictable performance with seamless scalability.
It's a multi AZ NoSQL data store with cross region replication is an option it definitely gives
you push button scalability and there's no downtime with DynamoDB. It defaults to what's called the
eventual consistency reads but you can request strongly consistent reads via an SDK parameter which
you'll need to put into your application. You can achieve ACID compliance with dynamoDB transactions
it's SSD based and uses limited indexing on attributes for fast performance databases synchronicity
replicated across three facilities in a region its a schemaless database and it can also be used for
storing session state. So they are two read models.
You got the eventually consistent reads.
This maximizes for reads. With eventually consistent reads
it might not reflect the results of a recently completed write but consistency is reached within a second.
With strongly consistent reads a read returns a result that reflects all rights that received a successful
response prior to the read.
So that's much better.
We then have DynamoDB streams.
This keeps a list of item level changes that have taken place in the last 24 hours so you can use this
for instance with AWS lambda so that AWS lambda can then trigger based on events that are happening
in your dynamoDB database if you create a stream on a table you can associate the stream ARN with
the Lambda function. We then have DynamoDB accelerator.
DAX.
This is a fully managed highly available in memory cache for DynamoDB that greatly improves performance.
So watch out for terminology that says milliseconds or microseconds.
So for microsecond responses you need to look at dynamoDB accelerator. So it's a managed service.
You don't have to modify your application because it's compatible with DynamoDB API calls and its provisioned
using clusters and charged by the nodes so you actually provision a certain number of EC2 instances
and the DAX cluster runs on those.
We then have dynamoDB cross region replication with global tables.
In this case dynamoDB global tables provides a fully managed solution for deploying a multi region
multi master database you credit global tables specify the regions you want the table to be available
in and then performs the necessary tasks to create identical tables in these regions and propagate any
ongoing changes to it's ideal for massively scaled applications globally dispersed users and it's providing
automatic multi master replication to the AWS regions around the world so you can deliver low latency
access to users anywhere in the world.
DynamoDB auto scaling uses application auto scaling to dynamically adjust the provision throughput
capacity on your behalf in response to traffic patterns so you know we have read capacity units and
write capacity units and dynamoDB and it changes those based on how much traffic it's seeing in the
database.
And this all happens automatically and prevent situations where you might end up having throttling taking
place and it will decrease the Freeport as well when the workload decreases.
So what do you pay for.
You pay for reading writing and storing data in the tables along with optional features.
There are two pricing models you've got on demand and provisioned capacity mode.
So try and make sure you understand the difference between these two.
We then have elasticache.
This is a fully managed implementation of redis or memcached.
So what we're talking about here is a managed service from running these two in-memory databases in
the cloud so that can improve latency and throughput for read heavy application workloads or compute intensive
workloads.
It's best for OLAP, so analytics processing transactions and it automatically scales push button
scalability for both the memory and the reads and writes. It's an in-memory key value store and it's not
persistent in the traditional sense because it's in memory database.
ElastiCache can be used to store session state as well.
You have nodes and these are fixed sized chunks of secure network attached RAM. Each node runs an
instance of memcached or redis and has its own DNS name and port. Failed nodes are automatically replaced.
Access to elasticache is controlled by VPC security groups and subnet groups when it's deployed
in a VPC, and subnet groups are a collection of subnets designated for your elasticache cluster.
So a couple of use cases for elasticache you've got a Web session store you've got a database caching
leaderboards and streaming data dashboards.
Now the two engines are slightly different.
You don't need to go into real deep depth about the differences between them but for the solutions architect
exam make sure you understand these differences.
So in most cases memached is considered to be the simple solution.
It can elastically scale out, you can run multiple CPU cores or threads and it's useful when you need
to cache objects such as database queries.
Redis is where you need encryption or HIPAA compliance.
It supports clustering more complex data types and when you need HA this is the one to go with.
So it actually supports replication.
So let's look at these in a bit more detail with memcached.
The data's not persistent can't be used as a data store.
It does support large nodes with multiple cores and threads.
It scales in and out by adding removing nodes and it's good for front-end data stores such as RDS
and dynamoDB. It scales up and down as well by changing the different instance type so the node family
or type it doesn't support multi AZ failover or replication or snapshots it can place nodes in
different AZs however.
Now with redis the data is persistent it can be used as a data store but it's not multi threaded.
Now it scales by adding shards not nodes and a shard is a subset
of the clusters key space that includes a primary node and 0 or more read-replicas.
Because if you remember back to our labs I showed you some diagrams of what this actually looks like
multi AZ is possible using Read replicas in another AZ in the same region. Redshift is a data warehouse.
So this is about analyzing data using standard SQL and business intelligence tools.
Now it doesn't come up much on the exam these days but I'm keeping it short.
So you just understand basically what it is.
It's a petabyte scale data warehouse.
It uses SQL
for analytics.
So think of it as an online analytics processing or OLAP type of database and you can run complex
queries against passive bites of structured data.
So remember again business intelligence.
That's a keyword that often comes up in relation to redshift.
It also features parallel processing and columnar data stores which are optimized for complex queries.
You can optionally query directly from data files on S3 using what's called redshift spectrum.
Now it does use EC2 instances so you have to choose your instance types for scaling a new scale
compute vertically but you can also scale horizontally by adding nodes you cannot directly access your
cluster as a user but you can through the application for availability and durability it uses
replication and continuous backups it's available in one AZ but you can restore snapshots into another
AZ.
Or alternatively you can run data warehouse clusters in multiple AZs by loading data into different
data warehouse clusters from the same set of input files. Redshift also automatically replicates your
data within the data warehouse and backs it up to S3 and it always keeps three copies of your data, the
original, a replica on the compute nodes, and a backup copy on S3.